SECTIONS HOME SEARCHSKIP TO CONTENTSKIP TO NAVIGATIONVIEW MOBILE VERSION
The New York Times
SUBSCRIBE NOW  LOG IN  SETTINGS

‘You Focus on the Good’: Women Who Voted for Trump, in Their Own Words

In the Shopping Cart of a Food Stamp Household: Lots of Soda

Democrats Confront F.B.I. Chief at Closed-Door Intelligence Briefing

Wait. Is That Hillary Clinton? Let’s Go Say Hi.

OPINION
Ivanka Trump’s Dangerous Fake Feminism

Richard Prince, Protesting Trump, Returns Art Payment

OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR
Donald Trump’s Dangerous Attacks on the Press

Jolted by Deaths, Obama Found His Voice on Race

Zhou Youguang, Who Made Writing Chinese as Simple as ABC, Dies at 111

OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR
Ben Carson’s Denial of Reality

A Big Test for Big Batteries

Trump Team’s Queries About Africa Point to Skepticism About Aid

House Clears Path for Repeal of Health Law

REVALUED
The ‘Impossible’ Veggie Burger: A Tech Industry Answer to...

The Other Kushner Brother’s Big Bet

FEATURE
Neanderthals Were People, Too

PUBLIC HEALTH
The Biggest Changes Obamacare Made, and Those That May...

N.F.L. Playoffs: Who We Think Will Win the Next Round

Head of Ethics Office Speaks Out. Some Republicans Ask, Was It Ethical?

A President Who Inspired Big Dreams, and Big Smiles, in a Young Generation
Loading...
TRENDING
MUSIC

Finally, a Debut for the Elbphilharmonie Hall in Hamburg
By CORINNA da FONSECA-WOLLHEIMJAN. 10, 2017
Continue reading the main storyShare This Page
Share
Tweet
Pin
Email
More
Save
Photo

The Elbphilharmonie in Hamburg. After years of delays, it will have its inaugural concert on Wednesday. Credit Michael Zapf
HAMBURG — The escalator to the Elbphilharmonie moves at a snail’s pace. That’s by design. A visit to this striking new concert hall, built on top of a massive brick warehouse overlooking the harbor here, begins with a four-minute ride through a white tube sequined with thousands of reflective discs. The tube is curved, too, so the end isn’t immediately visible. As you emerge onto an observation platform, a sweeping view of the Elbe River and the container port, bristling with cranes, suddenly reveals itself, a potent coup de théâtre.

[ An art critic weighs in on the look of the Elbphilharmonie ]

The ride represents the final tease of a project that has tested this city’s patience. Initial plans by the Swiss architectural firm Herzog & de Meuron were priced at 186 million euros (about $197 million), with the opening scheduled for 2010. After a succession of delays, revisions and legal disputes, the final bill for the city came to 798 million euros (about $843 million), leading to political debates and public protests. With the inaugural concert coming on Wednesday and featuring the NDR Symphony Orchestra, newly renamed the NDR Elbphilharmonie Orchestra, the city hopes to prove both the cost and the wait were worth it.


Elbphilharmonie Hamburg 360° | A cultural landmark where all music meets Video by Elbphilharmonie Hamburg
The moment is especially sweet for Christoph Lieben-Seutter, a former artistic director of the Vienna Konzerthaus who was appointed director of the Elbphilharmonie back in 2007. For a long time, he was a nearly homeless intendant, forced to focus his energies on programming in the neo-Baroque Laeiszhalle.

“Suddenly everything is sold out,” he said in a recent interview. Whether it’s concerts by the city’s resident ensembles, which also include the Hamburg State Philharmonic Orchestra and the Hamburger Symphoniker, or by visitors like the New York Philharmonic (which will perform here in April), contemporary chamber groups or jazz artists, Mr. Lieben-Seutter said that seats have been snapped up within hours of going on sale.

In addition to Wednesday’s concert, the opening festivities include concerts by the Chicago Symphony, under Riccardo Muti; recitals by Mitsuko Uchida and Brad Mehldau; and two performances by the German avant-garde rock band Einstürzende Neubauten (whose name translates, rather defiantly under the circumstances, as “Collapsing New Buildings”).

Continue reading the main story
RELATED COVERAGE


Review: The First Concert at the New Elbphilharmonie in Germany JAN. 13, 2017

The Elbphilharmonie, Like a Fabergé Egg With a Wondrous Secret Inside JAN. 10, 2017
Editors’ Picks
‘Patriots Day’ Disconnect Between Bostonians and the Rest of Us
JAN 13
A Tattoo for the Living
JAN 13
When the Downstairs Neighbor Is a Bar
JAN 13
Movie Star Dane DeHaan: He Broods. He Pouts. He ... Golfs?
JAN 13
Theodore Melfi Narrates a Scene From ‘Hidden Figures’
JAN 12
See More »

As he works to book the final free evenings between now and June, Mr. Lieben-Seutter has even resorted to offering tickets for “blind dates,” events of an unspecified genre featuring yet to be determined performers. Those, too, have sold out.

Photo

The Great Hall at the Elbphilharmonie in Hamburg, where the inaugural concert is scheduled for Wednesday. Credit Iwan Baan
Of course, much of the initial curiosity is directed at the architecture. The building is already a landmark, visible from far down the river. With its curved windows and white-tiled crested roof, the Elbphilharmonie dynamically contrasts with its sturdy, utilitarian brick foundation — a former cocoa warehouse — evoking a ship in full sail. The complex, part of the $12 billion, 400-acre HafenCity waterfront development zone, includes not only concert and recital halls, but also a hotel and luxury apartments costing up to 10 million euros.

As the building’s costs ballooned in 2010, Hamburg sued the construction company, and the Social Democrat opposition party in the city’s senate called for an investigation into the budget increases. For several months, construction ceased altogether on parts of the hall because of repeatedly revised fire safety plans.

Meanwhile, protesters in the streets and members of the city government questioned whether money was being poured into a prestige project reserved for an elite few.

But while tickets to an event like this week’s concert by the Chicago Symphony top out at 185 euros, the cheapest seats start at just 15 euros. And in the terraced auditorium of the Great Hall, no seat is farther than 100 feet from the conductor.

Perhaps the most persuasive answer to worries about elitism is the observation deck, at the intersection of the old brick and new glass parts of the building. Free to the public and offering a 360-degree view, it has drawn half a million visitors since it opened in November.

Photo

Surveying Hamburg from the observation deck of the Elbphilharmonie. Credit Iwan Baan
The vantage point it offers is especially attractive, as the building is at what Mr. Lieben-Seutter calls an “acupunctural” point of the city, where its patrician and blue-collar sides meet. The Elbphilharmonie is part of the city’s historic warehouse district, which has been transforming industrial spaces into highly sought-after residential waterfront developments.

Hamburg, an old trading city, is Germany’s principal port and its second-biggest city. But in some areas it has punched below its weight: Its soccer team lags near the bottom of the Bundesliga, and few international tourists visit.

In recent decades, Hamburg has marketed itself as Germany’s capital of musicals, with fixtures like “The Lion King,” in German, presented in a theater that is reached by ferry. But the city’s robust classical-music scene is still overshadowed by those of Berlin and Munich. The new hall is expected to change that by raising the standards of the ensembles that will play in its inspiring and, it is hoped, acoustically excellent interiors. And it will attract touring orchestras.

The challenge remains to make the new building feel relevant to all the sectors of the city. Carsten Brosda, who heads Hamburg’s culture department, said in an interview that educational outreach projects were a priority. “Every schoolchild in Hamburg should visit the Elbphilharmonie at least once as part of their education,” he said.

Photo

The Elbphilharmonie, designed by Herzog & de Meuron. Credit Thies Rätzke
The institution is also seeking to help integrate the refugees who have entered the city in great numbers over the past two years. In March the Elbphilharmonie will present a festival dedicated to Syrian music and culture that will bring together residents and new arrivals in projects including a community choir and creative workshops.

Alan Gilbert, the New York Philharmonic’s music director and a frequent guest conductor in Hamburg, said in a phone interview that the Elbphilharmonie’s vision aligned perfectly with his own paradigm for successful 21st-century orchestras. “It’s about how they connect to the cities they serve,” he said. “And one condition for that is the existence of a perfectly appropriate physical space. What’s going on there is related to what’s potentially going to happen here in New York with the idea of redoing David Geffen Hall.”

For Mr. Brosda, the question of just how likely the Elbphilharmonie is to repay its hefty investment is misplaced: “Not everything that counts can be counted.”

The building is sufficiently spectacular that many invoke the so-called “Bilbao effect,” a reference to the Spanish city that became a major tourist destination, thanks to its Frank Gehry-designed Guggenheim. With its waterfront position and optimistic thrust, the Elbphilharmonie also brings to mind Sydney’s opera house — another landmark building that was criticized and derided during its construction for overrunning budgets and missing deadlines.

“If you look for iconic buildings that stand for Germany, you probably have a list of historic buildings in your head,” Mr. Brosda said. “Few of them are even from the 20th century. So here you have a modern building representing a modern Germany.”

A version of this article appears in print on January 11, 2017, on Page C1 of the New York edition with the headline: Finally, a Debut for Hamburg’s Hall. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

Continue reading the main story
RELATED COVERAGE
Review: The First Concert at the New Elbphilharmonie in Germany JAN. 13, 2017

The Elbphilharmonie, Like a Fabergé Egg With a Wondrous Secret Inside JAN. 10, 2017

TRENDING


‘You Focus on the Good’: Women Who Voted for Trump, in Their Own Words

In the Shopping Cart of a Food Stamp Household: Lots of Soda

Democrats Confront F.B.I. Chief at Closed-Door Intelligence Briefing

Wait. Is That Hillary Clinton? Let’s Go Say Hi.

Opinion: Ivanka Trump’s Dangerous Fake Feminism

Richard Prince, Protesting Trump, Returns Art Payment

Op-Ed Contributor: Donald Trump’s Dangerous Attacks on the Press

Jolted by Deaths, Obama Found His Voice on Race

Zhou Youguang, Who Made Writing Chinese as Simple as ABC, Dies at 111

Op-Ed Contributor: Ben Carson’s Denial of Reality
View More Trending Stories »

What's Next
Loading...
Go to Home Page »
SITE INDEX THE NEW YORK TIMES

Site Index Navigation
NEWS

World
U.S.
Politics
N.Y.
Business
Tech
Science
Health
Sports
Education
Obituaries
Today's Paper
Corrections
OPINION

Today's Opinion
Op-Ed Columnists
Editorials
Contributing Writers
Op-Ed Contributors
Opinionator
Letters
Sunday Review
Taking Note
Room for Debate
Public Editor
Video: Opinion
ARTS

Today's Arts
Art & Design
Books
Dance
Movies
Music
N.Y.C. Events Guide
Television
Theater
Video: Arts
LIVING

Automobiles
Crossword
Food
Education
Fashion & Style
Health
Jobs
Magazine
N.Y.C. Events Guide
Real Estate
T Magazine
Travel
Weddings & Celebrations
LISTINGS & MORE

Classifieds
Tools & Services
Times Topics
Public Editor
N.Y.C. Events Guide
Blogs
Multimedia
Photography
Video
NYT Store
Times Journeys
Subscribe
Manage My Account
SUBSCRIBE

 Home Delivery
 Digital Subscriptions
 Times Insider
 Crossword
Email Newsletters
Alerts
Gift Subscriptions
Corporate Subscriptions
Education Rate
Mobile Applications
Replica Edition
Site Information Navigation
© 2017 The New York Times Company HomeSearchAccessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.Contact UsWork With UsAdvertiseYour Ad ChoicesPrivacyTerms of ServiceTerms of SaleSite Information Navigation
Site MapHelpSite FeedbackSubscriptions Go to the next story